Let's look at one solution to the joining exercise.
The first thing I'm going to do is make sure that Spark and Kafka are both running.
I'm going to do ps_ef.
If you've just started your workspace,
then you'll need to start both Kafka and Spark.
I see spark and spark,
which means my worker and my master are both running
and I also see several Java processes,
which means my Kafka is still up.
Now I'm going to write my code and be ready to submit it to the spark cluster.
The first thing I'm going to do is look at the data that I'll be processing.
This payload has the deposit schema,
the deposit JSON format.
I have an account number,
an amount, date and time.
This message has the customer,
which has various customer fields.
I'm going to create a schema for both of these JSON data types.
First one I'm going to call deposit message schema.
I'm going to pass it an array of struct fields,
and each field needs to match the JSON field name and type.
I can tell if there are quotes that it's supposed to be a string.
If there's no quotes,
then it might be another data type.
The amount is going to be a float type.
That's actually the only fields we need for the deposit.
Now am going to create the customer message schema,
and I need another array of struct fields.
The first one's going to be our customer name string.
Second one's going to be email.
Third one's going to be phone.
Next one is going to be birthday,
and we're going to treat the date like a string for our purposes.
Account number has quotes around it.
We're calling it a string as well,
and location is a string.
I'm going to connect to my spark cluster
and I'm going to call my application bank deposits.
Now I'm going to read from the ATM visits topic.
Create a data frame to hold that.
I'm going to read from the broker,
and I need to indicate where that's located.
Am going to tell the name of the topic to subscribe to,
which is bank deposits and I'm going to tell it the starting offsets, which is earliest.
Tell it to start that.
Right now I've got to convert that one to non-binary.
Let's make another data frame for that,
and we're going to cast the key as a string
and the key is probably going to be the account number.
The value is going to be bank deposit JSON.
We've just named those two fields.
Now were going to,
deserialize that JSON using the schema we created.
Let's call the width column method.
We're going to overwrite the bank deposit JSON field.
Seeing the from JSON method,
and we're going to pull data out of
the bank deposit JSON field and we're going to reference the deposit message schema.
Then we're going to select the subfields that just got
created and put those into view, called bank deposits.
Now, I'm going to select from the bank deposits where the deposit amount is over $300.
Now I'm going to read in the customer topic into a data frame.
I'm sailing at the Kafka format and then reading from the localhost.
Am reading from the topic called bank customers.
That's a predefined topic that I've been told has the information I need.
That's the reason I'm calling that specific topic.
I want to get the earliest messages.
I'm going to load this data frame.
We're going to convert this one as well from binary to string.
Create a new data frame for that.
We're going to cast the Kafka key as a string and we're going to call it,
let's see, I'm thinking the account number.
The account number is probably our key.
You wouldn't know what the name of the key is,
unless someone had told you or you would looked into the topic yourself.
We're going to call the value customer JSON.
Now we're going to parse the JSON using the schema we created.
We're taking the customers streaming data frame and
we're calling it the dot width column method on it.
We're going to overwrite the customer JSON field with the new fields we find.
We're pulling it out of customer JSON and putting it into customer JSON.
But when we put it back in,
it's got all the fields separated out.
We need to reference the customer message schema and we're going to
take that information as a data frame.
We're going to select the column called customer JSON.
We're going to get all the fields out of that,
they were just created subfields,
put those into a view.
Since they are customers,
we're going to call them bank customers in the view
and that'll be able to be queryed now.
Let's query it using spark sql.
I'm going to put the results in this D frame,
called customerselectstartDF and I'm going to use spark.sql to select the customer name,
account number as customer number.
I'm aliasing that field from bank customers.
Now I'm going to join those two data frames with the customer and the deposit.
This one here and this one here,
and on the left side of the join,
I'm going to have the deposits data frame.
Let's create a customer with deposit D frame.
That's going to equal the bankdepositsselectstarDF.join
customerselectstarDF and the join expression is going to be surrounded by triple quotes,
and account number is going equal customer number.
Let's go ahead and print this out to the console.
CustomerwithdepositDF.writestream.outputmode append,
format, console,
start, and then keep running.
If I'm in the home workspace folder and do ls,
I'll see a script that will run this Python script for me.
I'm going to do submit-customer-deposits.sh.
Line 32, I've misspelled builder.
Let's save it and run it again up arrow enter.
But now we're just waiting for the output that can take up to two minutes,
especially with joints, they seem to take a little longer.
We're still just waiting for that to finish running and start giving us output.
Run there we go, and you'll notice
I've got several deposits for a customer named Gail Jackson.
The deposit amount is different in each case and the date and time is different,
which tells us they're different deposits.
They're all happening on the 28th.
But now we're going to get into some other deposits,
we've got another customer, named Eric Clark.
Also on the 28th for $768.81.
We have Sarah Khatib,
who's made another deposit for a $197.
Are these falling into our $300 greater than 300?
We have 310, we have 318, nothing under 300.
That's a view of joining data frames from
two different Kafka topics and then creating the combined join of those two data frames.
I'm going to stop this by doing control C,
and that'll stop the spark application.